# belly-button-challenge
In this challenge, an interactive dashboard is build to explore the Belly Button Biodiversity dataset, which catalogs the microbes that colonize human navels.
    
## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC. The starter files which were provided are : index.html, samples.json, and static folder with app.js.
References:
Hulcr, J. et al. (2012) A Jungle in There: Bacteria in Belly Buttons are Highly Diverse, but Predictable. Retrieved from: http://robdunnlab.com/projects/belly-button-biodiversity/results-and-data/Links to an external site.


## Before you begin:
A new repository, named belly-button-challenge was created. The new repository was cloned.The changes were pushed to GitHub.
  
##Instructions:
1.    D3 library is used to read in samples.json from the URL https://static.bc-edx.com/data/dl-1-2/m14/lms/starter/samples.json.

2.    A horizontal bar chart is created with a dropdown menu to display the top 10 OTUs found in that individual.
•    sample_values is used as the values for the bar chart.
•    otu_ids is used as the labels for the bar chart.
•    otu_labels is used as the hovertext for the chart.

3.    A bubble chart is created that displays each sample.
•    otu_ids is used for the x values.
•    sample_values is used for the y values.
•    sample_values is used for the marker size.
•    otu_ids is used for the marker colors.
•    otu_labels is used for the text values.
4.    The sample metadata is displayed, i.e., an individual's demographic information.
5.    Each key-value pair is displayed from the metadata JSON object on the page.
6.    All the plots are updatedwhen a new sample is selected. 
7.    An  app is deployed to a free static page hosting service, such as GitHub Pages. Following is the GitHub Pages link:  https://apekshai101.github.io/belly-button-challenge/ 



